This is my favorite section.
We're gonna talk about the psychology
of colors for a second here, so
whether we realize this or not,
a color of our products actually can
elicit emotional responses from our users.
So red is typically associated with fire,
violence, war, love and passion, and
It can actually raise your users
blood pressure subconsciously.
So really try to use this sparingly
throughout your application.
Orange as vibrant and energetic typically
it can be associated with like earth,
autumn change and movement,
this is a really great color
to use throughout your UIs.
Yellows associated with happiness and
sunshine but
can also be associated with cowardice,
or deceit.
So just make sure you're
picking a nice shade
of yellow if you're gonna
use that throughout your UI.
Green represents new beginnings and
growth, it can signify renewal, abundance,
or can even represent like envy or
jealousy, and it has many calming effects.
It's pretty similar to blue, but
it has the vibrancy of a yellow, so
green is a great choice.
You might actually see this with
a lot of financial applications.
Blue can represent sadness or calmness,
but also represents trust and
reliability and responsibility.
And this is why you'll see a lot of social
media applications using blue like Twitter
and Facebook because, they're basically
asking for all of your personal data and
they wanna give you that subconscious
sense that it's safe with them.
So that's why a lot of them choose blue.
Purple's fun, I would love to
create an application using purple.
It typically is associated with luxury and
royalty like the royal family for example,
but it is a little bit quirkier.
Black has long been associated with
power and elegance and formality,
again, it can signify evil, death,
and mystery, so just be aware of that.
And on the other side, we've got white.
So white indicates purity, cleanliness,
virtue, and goodness, it's often used for
a lot of modern designs.
Gray can indicate moodiness or
depression but
in general I would say gray is now more of
a formal and modern design for our UIs.
And then last we've got brown,
brown is a little boring sometimes,
it can indicate dependability,
reliability.
So if you're gonna use brown just make
sure it fits with your brand identity,
if you're gonna use any color make
sure it exhibits your brand identity.
So if you're building a financial
application like a banking site,
maybe don't use red.
We don't wanna raise our our clients
blood pressure while they're trying to
transfer money.